README.md, before:

Planning Document Link:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1n_8b3t7i42_2JzQcKiWK9j6iOqrzB8hCL9ffSwjsGe8/edit

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3 Resources:

1) https://brainyloop.com/how-to-simulate-flocking-behavior/ - This is an explanation of flocking that provides a UML diagram of potential code for a flocking simulation and a description of three rules to be followed.
2) https://faculty.cc.gatech.edu/~turk/bio_sim/hw2.html - This is an assignment description for a project similar to this one, detailing many things that can be included in a flocking simulation.
3) https://processing.org/examples/flocking.html - This is an example of code for a flocking simulation and a visual of the code running.
4) https://rosettacode.org/wiki/Boids/Java - This is an example of code for a flocking simulation, all classes in one document. We used the name, variables, and methods of the Vec class from this source in our own Vec class.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Description:
 In this project, we want to create a simulation of the flocking behavior with boids. This end result contains a GUI that will allow the user to select the number of boids, the speed as well as some other options that the user to control using a slider.

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 How-to-use:

 1) Pull the java files
 2) run command prompt
 3) navigate to the location of the files by using "cd" command
 4) compile the .java files by typing "javac *.java"
 5) run the java simulation by entering "java Simulation"

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:

Boid.java - This java file contains methods that will affect the boids such as the separation method, the cohesion method, getLocation method, getDirection,  etc. 



BoundingBox.java - This java file creates the box in which the simulation will be shown on.



Controller.java - This java file allows for the the sliders to pass in the value to show the 



Model.java - This java file contains methods that can be controlled by the end user and the values will be read by the controller to allow for the end user to control the simulation.



Point.java - This java file contains the point object allowing the use of points to determine location.



Simulation.java - This java file contains a call to the controller class to run the simulation when "java simulation" is called on the command prompt window.



SimulationGUI.java - This java file contains the sliders and the buttons for the GUI. 



Vec.java - This java file allows for the creation of vector objects to use in the Boid class to determine cohesion, separation, etc.

Commit message:

Added algorithm for flocking section into README

README.md, after:

Planning Document Link:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1n_8b3t7i42_2JzQcKiWK9j6iOqrzB8hCL9ffSwjsGe8/edit

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3 Resources:

1) https://brainyloop.com/how-to-simulate-flocking-behavior/ - This is an explanation of flocking that provides a UML diagram of potential code for a flocking simulation and a description of three rules to be followed.
2) https://faculty.cc.gatech.edu/~turk/bio_sim/hw2.html - This is an assignment description for a project similar to this one, detailing many things that can be included in a flocking simulation.
3) https://processing.org/examples/flocking.html - This is an example of code for a flocking simulation and a visual of the code running.
4) https://rosettacode.org/wiki/Boids/Java - This is an example of code for a flocking simulation, all classes in one document. We used the name, variables, and methods of the Vec class from this source in our own Vec class.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Description:
 In this project, we want to create a simulation of the flocking behavior with boids. This end result contains a GUI that will allow the user to select the number of boids, the speed as well as some other options that the user to control using a slider.

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 How-to-use:

 1) Pull the java files
 2) run command prompt
 3) navigate to the location of the files by using "cd" command
 4) compile the .java files by typing "javac *.java"
 5) run the java simulation by entering "java Simulation"

 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Algorithm for flocking :

Create vector class to allow for the use of vectors to calculate position and direction. 

Create separation method using vector subtraction to calculate the how far apart each of the boids are separated.

create seek method to allow for boids to seek the closest pack and move to it

Create cohesion method using vector division to separate boids into groups and seek out a group

create determine neighbor to allow for boids to determine which boids are neighbors

Create calAveragePosition to determine the average position of boids to allow for movement

create calAverageDirection to allow for average dirction of boids to allow for avoided collision

call seek or separate if calcAveragePosition of boid is within a certain range of another boid

call cohesion and determine neighbor to allow for boids to move according to their surrounding neighbors



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:

Boid.java - This java file contains methods that will affect the boids such as the separation method, the cohesion method, getLocation method, getDirection,  etc. 



BoundingBox.java - This java file creates the box in which the simulation will be shown on.



Controller.java - This java file allows for the the sliders to pass in the value to show the 



Model.java - This java file contains methods that can be controlled by the end user and the values will be read by the controller to allow for the end user to control the simulation.



Point.java - This java file contains the point object allowing the use of points to determine location.



Simulation.java - This java file contains a call to the controller class to run the simulation when "java simulation" is called on the command prompt window.



SimulationGUI.java - This java file contains the sliders and the buttons for the GUI. 



Vec.java - This java file allows for the creation of vector objects to use in the Boid class to determine cohesion, separation, etc.
